complaint was consumption, not typhus: and by consumption I, in my
ignorance, understood something mild, which time and care would be sure
to alleviate.

I was confirmed in this idea by the fact of her once or twice coming
downstairs on very warm sunny afternoons, and being taken by Miss
Temple into the garden; but, on these occasions, I was not allowed to
go and speak to her; I only saw her from the schoolroom window, and
then not distinctly; for she was much wrapped up, and sat at a distance
under the verandah.

One evening, in the beginning of June, I had stayed out very late with
Mary Ann in the wood; we had, as usual, separated ourselves from the
others, and had wandered far; so far that we lost our way, and had to
ask it at a lonely cottage, where a man and woman lived, who looked
after a herd of half-wild swine that fed on the mast in the wood. When
we got back, it was after moonrise: a pony, which we knew to be the
surgeon’s, was standing at the garden door. Mary Ann remarked that she
supposed some one must be very ill, as Mr. Bates had been sent for at
that time of the evening. She went into the house; I stayed behind a
few minutes to plant in my garden a handful of roots I had dug up in
the forest, and which I feared would wither if I left them till the
morning. This done, I lingered yet a little longer: the flowers smelt
so sweet as the dew fell; it was such a pleasant evening, so serene, so
warm; the still glowing west promised so fairly another fine day on the
morrow; the moon rose with such majesty in the grave east. I was noting
these things and enjoying them as a child might, when it entered my
mind as it had never done before:—

“How sad to be lying now on a sick bed, and to be in danger of dying!
This world is pleasant—it would be dreary to be called from it, and to
have to go who knows where?”

And then my mind made its first earnest effort to comprehend what had
been infused into it concerning heaven and hell; and for the first time
it recoiled, baffled; and for the first time glancing behind, on each
side, and before it, it saw all round an unfathomed gulf: it felt the
one point where it stood—the present; all the rest was formless cloud
