 with gems of sorts; but his face was sad with the traces of sorrow. He
 returned the royal salute in most courteous wise adding, "O my lord,
 thy dignity demandeth my rising to thee; and my sole excuse is to crave
 thy pardon."[114] Quoth the King, "Thou art excused, O youth; so look
 upon me as thy guest come hither on an especial object. I would thou
 acquaint me with the secrets of this tarn and its fishes and of this
 palace and thy loneliness therein and the cause of thy groaning and
 wailing." When the young man heard these words he wept with sore
 weeping;[115] till his bosom was drenched with tears and began
 reciting:—

 Say him who careless sleeps what while the shaft of Fortune flies ✿ How
    many doth this shifting world lay low and raise to rise?
 Although thine eye be sealed in sleep, sleep not th' Almighty's eyes ✿
    And who hath found Time ever fair, or Fate in constant guise?

 Then he sighed a long-fetched sigh and recited:—

 Confide thy case to Him, the Lord who made mankind; ✿ Quit cark and
    care and cultivate content of mind;
 Ask not the Past or how or why it came to pass: ✿ All human things by
    Fate and Destiny were designed!

 The King marvelled and asked him, "What maketh thee weep, O young man?"
 and he answered, "How should I not weep, when this is my case!"
 Thereupon he put out his hand and raised the skirt of his garment, when
 lo! the lower half of him appeared stone down to his feet while from
 his navel to the hair of his head he was man. The King, seeing this his
 plight, grieved with sore grief and of his compassion cried, "Alack and
 well-away! in very sooth, O youth, thou heapest sorrow upon my sorrow.
 I was minded to ask thee the mystery of the fishes only: whereas now I
 am concerned to learn thy story as well as theirs. But there is no
 Majesty and there is no Might save in Allah, the Glorious, the
 Great.[116] Lose no time, O youth, but tell me forthright thy whole
 tale." Quoth he, "Lend me thine ears, thy sight and thine insight;" and
 quoth the King, "All are at thy service!" Thereupon the youth began,
 "Right wondrous and marvellous is my case and that of these fishes; and
 were it graven with gravers upon the eye-corners it were a warner to
